Pregnancy, complicated
A same-sex couple of advanced maternal age successfully conceives via in vitro fertilization. Preconception and prenatal care are documented within the SHR. Relevant past medical history pertaining to the anonymous sperm donor is shared confidentially via the SHR. The expectant mother and donor undergo genetic testing. The pregnancy is complicated, and managed jointly by the primary OB-GYN, consulting Maternal Fetal Medicine (MFM) OB specialist and MFM Nurse Midwife. The expectant mother experiences preterm labor unexpectedly, while remote the hospital system that is her usual source of care. Her prenatal records are immediately available and the OB-GYN on call at the nearest facility is able to manage delivery. The infant experiences mild complications of prematurity. Although there is only a Level 2 NICU at the delivering facility, the infant's care is successfully managed through telemedicine consultation with a neonatology team.  

Emergency, trauma (Based on Real Life, Resulting in Patient Death)
A middle-aged woman suffers poly-system trauma when struck by an automobile while riding her bicycle. No identification is found at the scene; howevever she is biometrically identified in the ambulance en route to the ER. Her out-of-state medical records are immediately available. She has a rare mild genetic blood clotting disorder noted in the SHR; early recognition of this condition results in recipt of a specific blood clotting factor which is likely life saving. She is stabilized, undergoes surgery, and remains in the ICU until she regains consciousness 3 days later. She is transitioned quickly to a long term rehabilitation facility and, eventually, to home, where home health providers and monitoring equipment allow her to live independently during the final stages of her rehabilitation.

Chronic condition, new (John Proctor Example)
A middle-aged man experiences a heart attack at home. He is transported to the nearest cardiac specialty facility where he undergoes cardiac stenting. While recovering in the ICU, he develops congestive heart failure as a complication of his heart attack. His condition is stabilized. He is discharged to a sub acute rehabilitation facility, where he recovers for 1 week before discharge home. Home monitoring devices capture data on his body weight, medication adherence and blood pressure and transmit this to his Care Manager, Home Health Nurse and Primary Care Physician. He opts to receive his followup care in the home, through teleconference involving the Home Health Nurse (in person), and the Primary Care Physician and Cardiologist (both present remotely). 

Wellness, losing weight
A middle-aged woman decides to enroll in a weight loss program sponsored by her health insurance company, on the advice of a Care Manager who contacts her based on data in the SHR. She receives a web enabled scale and an activity tracker. She tracks her dietary intake using a mobile app. Data on her physical activity levels, dietary intake hydration, sleep, stress and mood are uploaded to her SHR. An interdisciplinary team, including her Primary Care Physician, an Exercise Physiologist, a Nutritionist and a Health Coach works with her to formulate a detailed Care Plan, involving weekly meal planning and exercise routines. An artificial intelligence agent on her smartphone helps her stay motivated, but also facilitates communication with members of the care team on a synchronous or asynchronous basis, via text, voice or videoconference.

Chronic care, routine
A middle-aged man manages his diabetes, using an array of mHealth apps to monitor his dietary intake, blood glucose levels, body weight, blood pressure, physical activity levels, hydration, mood, medication adherence and sleep quality. An interdisciplinary team, including his Primary Care Physician, Endocrinologist, Nutritionist, and Health Coach works with him to formulate a detailed Care Plan, involving weekly meal planning. An artificial intelligence agent on his smartphone helps him stay motivated, but also facilitates communication with members of the care team on a synchronous or asynchronous basis, via text, voice or videoconference. Traditional, episodic, face-to-face office visits for diabetes management are replaced by frequent adjustments to the Care Plan, pushed to the patient via the SHR on an automated basis or by the care team, based on feedback from the continuous stream of patient reported and mHealth data uploaded to the patient's SHR.

Chronic care, specialized
A middle-aged woman is experiencing progression of her relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. She uses mHealth apps to monitor her daily symptoms, activity level, mood, sleep quality and medication adherence. An interdisciplinary team, including her Primary Care Physician, Neurologist, Physical Therapist, Occupational Therapist and Licensed Clincal Social Worker works with her to formulate a detailed Care Plan. She receives social support through an online social media network of patients with RRMS, enhanced by the SHR. Her Neurologist regularly refines her treatment plan based on feedback from the continuous stream of patient reported and mHealth data uploaded to her SHR. The patient, PCP and Neurologist use SHR empowered forecasting models to weigh treatment alternatives based on the performance of those therapies in patients like her. Her Neurologist uses learns that she is eligible to participate in a phase 3 clinical trial of a promising new therapy. She enrolls in the clinical trial through the SHR. The researchers obtain data and communicate with the patient, her PCP and her Neurologist directly through the SHR.

Hospital at home
An 84 year old man is diagnosed with community acquired pneumonia in the ED.  A first dose of antibiotics is given and he is observed in the holding unit overnight.  His fever has been normal on 2 occasions but is currently 100.4 F.  His mental status is baseline.  He lives with his wife and son.  The hospital discharges him to home with visits by a RN scheduled every 12 hours for the next 2 days. Vital signs are transmitted into the SHR as are clinical notes by the RN.  

Aging in place
Story.

Mental Health
Story.

Acute condition, diagnostic dilemma
Story.

Substance Use Disorder
a 34 year old woman with opiate addiction and frequent use of amphetamines is hit by a car and taken, unconscious, to the nearby trauma center.  Her husband accompanies her and confirms her identity to the emergency department. Because of access to the SHR the providers are able to access results of prior urine and blood tests and estimate the degree of opiate tolerance.  Additionally her test results enter the public health surveillance system which provides information to MDs about what drugs are circulating in the community.

Population Health Management
Story.

Patient enrolls in SHR
Story.

Disease Outbreak
Zika arrives in South Carolina and a vaccine is available for testing.  Using the SHR public health authorities are able to find all pregnant women, by gestational age, who might be offered a spot in a trial. They are able to track enrollment, follow the patients for subsequent findings, and report updted findings to CDC and NIH at any desired interval.
